662 parameter choice docs (#663)
ACCESS-NRI/access-om3-configs: documentation/docs/pages/Parameter-choices.md

$$
\kappa_{\text{static}} = \min\left[\max\left(\kappa_{\text{bg}}, U_\nu \Delta(x,y), \kappa_{2d}(x,y), \kappa_{\phi}(x,y)\right), \kappa_{max}(x,y)\right]
$$

where,
1. $\kappa_{\text{bg}}$ (`USE_KH_BG_2D = False`) is constant but spatially variable 2D map, also there is no constant background viscosity (`KH = 0`).
2. $U_\nu \Delta(x,y)$ ($U_\nu$ = `KH_VEL_SCALE = 0.01`) is a constant velocity scale,
3. $\kappa_{\phi}(x,y) = \kappa_\pi|sin(\phi)|^n$ (`KH_SIN_LAT = 2000.0`, `KH_PWR_OF_SINE = 4`) is a function of latitude,

The full viscosity includes the dynamic components,

$\kappa_h(x,y,t) = r(\Delta, L_d)\max\left(\kappa_{\text{static}}, \kappa_{\text{Smagorinsky}}, \kappa_{\text{Leith}}\right)$

where,
1. $r(\Delta, L_d)$ (`RESOLN_SCALED_KH = True`) is a resolution function. This will scale down the Laplacian component of viscosity in well-resolved regions.
2. $\kappa_{\text{Smagorinsky}}$ (`SMAGORINSKY_KH = False`) is from the dynamic Smagorinsky scheme,
3. $\kappa_{\text{Leith}}$ (`LEITH_KH = False`) is the Leith viscosity.

> We enable `BOUND_KH = True` to locally limit the Laplacian diffusivity ensuring CFL stability. Specifically, a coefficient `Kh_Limit = 0.3 / (dt * 4.0)` is applied, taking grid spacing into account. To further improve numerical stability, we enable both `BETTER_BOUND_KH = True` and `BETTER_BOUND_AH = True`, which apply more refined constraints on Laplacian and biharmonic viscosities, respectively. We set `RES_SCALE_MEKE_VISC = False`, meaning the viscosity is not explicitly scaled by MEKE. For biharmonic viscosity, we apply a flow-dependent Smagorinsky parameterisation with no background value (AH = 0.0). The viscosity is dynamically computed based on the local strain rate by enabling `SMAGORINSKY_AH = True`, and is scaled using `SMAG_BI_CONST = 0.06` (the MOM6 default). Anisotropic viscosity is disabled via `ANISOTROPIC_VISCOSITY = False`. Finally, to maintain numerical stability, the biharmonic viscosity is locally bounded using `BOUND_AH = True`, with a coefficient limit `Ah_Limit = 0.3 / (dt * 64.0)`.

Author: ```suggestion
We enable `BOUND_KH = True` to locally limit the Laplacian diffusivity ensuring CFL stability. Specifically, a coefficient `Kh_Limit = 0.3 / (dt * 4.0)` is applied, taking grid spacing into account. To further improve numerical stability, we enable both `BETTER_BOUND_KH = True` and `BETTER_BOUND_AH = True`, which apply more refined constraints on Laplacian and biharmonic viscosities, respectively. We set `RES_SCALE_MEKE_VISC = False`, meaning the viscosity is not explicitly scaled by MEKE. For biharmonic viscosity, we apply a flow-dependent Smagorinsky parameterisation with no background value (`AH = 0.0`). The viscosity is dynamically computed based on the local strain rate by enabling `SMAGORINSKY_AH = True`, and is scaled using `SMAG_BI_CONST = 0.06` (the MOM6 default). Anisotropic viscosity is disabled via `ANISOTROPIC_VISCOSITY = False`. Finally, to maintain numerical stability, the biharmonic viscosity is locally bounded using `BOUND_AH = True`, with a coefficient limit `Ah_Limit = 0.3 / (dt * 64.0)`.
```

The sections that follow explain why we selected each model parameter for the global [MC_25km_jra_ryf-1.0-beta](https://github.com/ACCESS-NRI/access-om3-configs/releases/tag/release-MC_25km_jra_ryf-1.0-beta) configuration and how they work together across the coupled system. We start with the MOM6 ocean settings, then step through the CICE sea‑ice namelist. For every group of parameters you’ll find a description, links to the relevant code or literature, and practical guidance on when you might adjust the defaults. Use this as both a quick reference and a roadmap for deeper dives into the individual configuration files.

## MOM6 parameter choices

### Horizontal grid

> The current configuration uses a tripolar grid to avoid a singularity at the North Pole. The domain is zonally periodic `REENTRANT_X = True` and open at the north via a tripolar fold `TRIPOLAR_N = True` while closed in the south `REENTRANT_Y = False`. The horizontal grid has `1440x1142` tracer points. This is closed aligned with prior models, such as `ACCESS-OM2-025` and `GFDL OM4/OM5` (`1440x1080`) and provides eddy-permitting detail in the ocean while maintaining numerical stability.

Author: Thanks I'll add a link to it and fix the typo.

### Vertical resolution and ALE coordinate
The current configuration uses 75 vertical layers (`NK=75`) with an arbitrary Lagrangian Euler (`ALE`) vertical coordinate scheme. The `ALE` scheme is enabled by `USE_REGRIDDING = True` (activating the “split-explicit” layered/reegridding algorithm). Rather than fixed z-levels, MOM6 can operate in a hybrid vertical coordinate mode. The current configuration uses a stretched $z^*$ vertical coordinate `REGRIDDING_COORDINATE_MODE = "ZSTAR"`. The vertical grid spacing is specified via an input file (`ALE_COORDINATE_CONFIG = "FILE:ocean_vgrid.nc,interfaces=zeta"`). The deepest ocean depth is set to `MAXIMUM_DEPTH = 6000.0` and partial bottom cells are effectively used by `ALE`. Gravitational acceleration (`G_EARTH = 9.8`) and reference density (`RHO_0 = 1035`) are set to standard values, consistent with `BOUSSINESQ = True`. The Boussinesq setup means density variations only affect buoyancy, not total mass. In our configuration, sea level is computed assuming a reference density (here using the fixed reference density for sea-level calc since `CALC_RHO_FOR_SEA_LEVEL = False`).

> 

Author: Same to the above.

We also ensure salinity never goes negative by setting `BOUND_SALINITY = True`. In coupled models, when sea ice forms or melts, large salinity fluxes occur. This switch prevents numerical issues when the top model cell might be depleted of salt by excessive ice formation. With this parameter on, salinity is clipped at a minimum value (`MIN_SALINITY = 0.0`). If the sea-ice model were to extract more salt than available, the ocean salinity will be floored at 0 and any deficit is ignored, avoiding unphysical negative salinity. In practice, this situation is rare, but it is a safety measure against extreme scenarios (eg, rapid freezing in nearly fresh water). We also set `SALINITY_UNDERFLOW = 0.0`, meaning any tiny salinity values (close to 0) are reset to exactly 0 as well.

> 

Reviewer: Nah it crashes because it thinks the thermodynamic calculation is not conserving energy. But i think the root cause is low salinity.

## CICE namelist
The CICE sea ice model is configured using a Fortran namelist file called `ice_in`. This file contains a series of named blocks, each starting with `&groupname` and ending with `/`. Each block represents a different component of the sea ice model, for example:

1. grid configuration
2. thermodynamics
3. radiation and albedo
4. dynamics and advection
5. diagnostics and output settings

This document walks through each of these namelist groups and provides a short explanation of what each group controls and how it is configured in our `ACCESS-OM3` setup.

### `setup_nml`
This group defines time-stepping, run length, output frequencies, initial conditions, and I/O settings.

- Time-stepping and run length
    - The timestep `dt` is not defined in `ice_in` directly; it is overwritten in the CICE NUOPC cap to match the driver timestep (coupling timestep). See [NUOPC driver](pages/NUOPC-driver/) for more information.
- Initialisation: 
    - [`ice_ic`](https://cice-consortium-cice.readthedocs.io/en/cice6.0/user_guide/ug_case_settings.html#:~:text=*-,ice_ic,-default)

>         - When set to `"default"`, CICE initialises sea ice concentration and thickness based on latitude and sea surface temperature (SST) climatology.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        - When set to `"default"`, CICE initialises sea ice concentration and thickness based on latitude.
```

        - If set to `"none"`, the model starts with no sea ice.
- Ouput frequencies
   - Defines up to five output streams:
   ```bash
    histfreq = "d", "m", "x", "x", "x"
    hist_suffix = ".1day.mean", ".1mon.mean", "x", "x", "x"
   ```

    - Daily averaged output: `.1day.mean`
    - Monthly averaged output: `.1mon.mean`
    - Streams marked `"x"` are unused.

   - History files use `hist_time_axis = "middle"` to center timestamps in the averaging interval.

### `grid_nml`
This groups defines the spatial grid, land mask, and ice thickness category structure.

- Horizontal Grid
    - Tripolar grid at 25 km nominal resolution: `grid_type = "tripole"`
    - Grid files:

>         - The grid is defined by `grid_file = "./INPUT/ocean_hgrid.nc"`,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        - The grid is defined by `grid_file = "./INPUT/ocean_hgrid.nc"`. We use the MOM grid file in CICE for best consistency between model components.
```

        - Land mask file `kmt_file = "./INPUT/kmt.nc"`,

>         - Bathymetry file `bathymetry_file = "./INPUT/topog.nc"`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        - Bathymetry file `bathymetry_file = "./INPUT/topog.nc"`. (not currently used)
```

- Grid staggering
    - Atmosphere and ocean coupling grids use `A-grid`: `grid_atm = "A"`, `grid_ocn = "A"`,
    - Sea ice uses `B-grid`: `grid_ice = "B"`.
- Ice Thickness Categories: 
    - Five ice thickness categories: `ncat = 5`,
    - Four vertical layers in sea ice: `nilyr = 4`,
    - One snow layer: `nslyr = 1`.
- Grid output:

>     - `grid_outfile = .true.` writes grid info to NetCDF (eg, `MOM_IC.nc`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - `grid_outfile = .true.` writes the cice grid into a seperate NetCDF (eg, `access-om3.cice.static.nc`).
```

### `thermo_nml`
Controls thermodynamic processes in sea ice.

- Uses the multi-layer thermodynamics of [@bitz1999energy].
- All parameters are left as default, except:
    - `dsdt_slow_mode = -5e-08`: tunes brine drainage (slows down salt removal from ice).

### `dynamics_nml`
Configures sea ice motion and advection.

- Dynamics:
    - Uses elastic-viscous-plastic (`EVP`) rheology [@hunke1997elastic],

>     - Default `EVP` subcycling count `ndte = 240`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Default `EVP` subcycling count `ndte = 120`.
```

- Advection:
    - `advection = "remap"`: Uses incremental remapping for ice and tracer transport [@dukowicz2000incremental].
- SSH:
    - `ssh_stress = "coupled"`: ice feels drag from ocean surface slopes (important for coupling).

### `shortwave_nml`
This group deals with how solar radiation is treated in the ice model and the surface albedo parameters for ice and snow.

- Radiation scheme:
    - `shortwave = "ccsm3"`, `albedo_type = "ccsm3"`: NCAR CCSM3 scheme.
- Albedo settings:
    - `albicev = 0.86` and `albicei = 0.44` for bare ice albedo (visible (`v`) and near infrared (`i`) respectively). These two values are for thick, cold ice. An `albicev` of 0.86 means snow-free ice reflects ~86% of visible light when cold, and `albicei` of 0.44 means ~44% of near-`IR` is reflected. These values are relatively high to ensure the ice does not absorb too much sunlight when snow is absent. 
    - `albsnowv = 0.98`, `albsnowi = 0.70` are for cold snow albedo (`v` and `IR`respectively). By using these two values, we assumes fresh dry snow is bright in visible (98%)
and also high in near-`IR` (70%). 
- Albedo thickness dependence:

>     - `ahmax = 0.1` is the thickness parameter for albedo, which is constant above this thickness. In our configuration, it means once ice is ~10cm thick, it is treated optically like thick ice and there will be no further albedo increase. Thinner ice, which is less than 10cm, will have a lower effective albedo. 

Reviewer: Are these settings used, I thought that was set through the mediator ?

Author: so should those be removed from ice_in then?

Reviewer: Sorry i was confused. the forcing only has one field for shortwave, which is split into some components, but its different to this albedo. I think this section is ok

https://github.com/ACCESS-NRI/CDEPS/blob/2733fdcfaece8eb53798f5fe19bf91137744f21c/datm/datm_datamode_jra_mod.F90#L288-L292

- Pond/algae effects:
    - [`kalg = 0.0`](https://github.com/CICE-Consortium/CICE/blob/2cdd3d007a409d26cb0c16d946678a544ada55fa/doc/source/user_guide/ug_case_settings.rst#L556:~:text=1.5-,kalg,-real) means no additional algae-related absorption,

>     - [`r_snw = 0.0`](https://github.com/CICE-Consortium/CICE/blob/2cdd3d007a409d26cb0c16d946678a544ada55fa/doc/source/user_guide/ug_case_settings.rst#L556:~:text=0.0-,R_snw,-real) is a tuning parameter for snow (broadband albedo) from Delta-Eddingon shortwave, here it is 0, which means not using additional boradband albedo tuning.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - [`r_snw = 0.0`](https://github.com/CICE-Consortium/CICE/blob/2cdd3d007a409d26cb0c16d946678a544ada55fa/doc/source/user_guide/ug_case_settings.rst#L556:~:text=0.0-,R_snw,-real) is a tuning parameter for snow (broadband albedo) from Delta-Eddingon shortwave, here it is 0, which means not using additional broadband albedo tuning.
```

### `forcing_nml`
The forcing namelist governs how external forcing (`atm` and` ocn`) is applied to the ice, including coupling flux adjustments.

- Atmosphere

>     - `highfreq = .true.`: Uses high-frequency atmospheric coupling (eg, 3-hourly JRA55-do data).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - `highfreq = .true.`: Uses the relative atmosphere-ice velocity instead of the only atmospheric velocity for boundary layer fluxes
```

- Ocean

>     - `update_ocn_f = .true.`: Sends ice-ocean fluxes (heat/salt) to ocean model (MOM6),

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - `update_ocn_f = .true.`: uses coupled frazil water/salt fluxes from ocean,
```

    - `ustar_min = 0.0005`: Minimum ocean friction velocity to ensure stability.
- Freezing temperature
    - `tfrz_option = "linear_salt"`: Freezing point depends on salinity. [Thermodynamics and Equation of State (TEOS-10)](#thermodynamics-and-equation-of-state-teos-10) for more information,

>     - `ice_ref_salinity = 5`: sets the reference salinity of newly formed ice and the baseline for salt flux calculations. It means when sea water freezes, the ice is assumed to trap salt at 5 psu and the remainder is rejected to the ocean. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - `ice_ref_salinity = 5`: sets the reference salinity of newly formed ice and the baseline for salt flux calculations. It means when sea water freezes, the ice is assumed to trap salt at 5 psu and the remainder is rejected to the ocean. This field is set for consistency with the constants assumed by MOM6.
```

### `domain_nml`
This group namelist controls how the computational domain is divided among processors.

- Global grid size
    - `nx_global = 1440`, `ny_global = 1142` define the total grid points (same as MOM6 ocean grid),
- Block size

>     - we currently use a two-level decomposition - first into blocks of size `30x27` (`block_size_x = 30`, `block_size_y = 27`), then these blocks are distributed to MPI tasks. Each MPI task may get one or multiple blocks depending on domain and processor count. The chosen block size is a tuning for performance. Smaller blocks improve load balance but can increase halo communication overhead.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - we currently use a two-level decomposition - first into blocks of size `30x27` (`block_size_x = 30`, `block_size_y = 27`), then these blocks are distributed to MPI tasks. Each MPI task may gets multiple blocks to better balance computational laod. The chosen block size is a tuning for performance. Smaller blocks improve load balance but can increase halo communication overhead.
```

- Distribution type
    - `distribution_type = "roundrobin"`: Assigns blocks cyclically to spread out computational load. See [CICE Documentation](https://cice-consortium-cice.readthedocs.io/en/cice6.0/user_guide/ug_implementation.html?highlight=roundrobin#:~:text=While%20the%20Cartesian,needed%20to%20communicate.) for more information.
- Processor shape
    -  `processor_shape = "square-ice"` indicates the model guess on how to arrange MPI tasks in X vs Y dimension. `“square-ice”` is a pre-set suggesting a slightly X-dominated partition for sea ice. It means the decomposition of blocks to processors will result in more processor domains along x-direction (longitude) than y (latitude), roughly balancing to a square domain per proc. 
- Max Blocks

>     - `max_blocks = -1` No hard limit on number of blocks per processor,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - `max_blocks = -1` Internally calculated number of blocks per processor,
```

> The sections that follow explain why we selected each model parameter for the global [MC_25km_jra_ryf-1.0-beta](https://github.com/ACCESS-NRI/access-om3-configs/releases/tag/release-MC_25km_jra_ryf-1.0-beta) configuration and how they work together across the coupled system. We start with the MOM6 ocean settings, then step through the CICE sea‑ice namelist. For every group of parameters you’ll find a description, links to the relevant code or literature, and practical guidance on when you might wish to adjust the defaults. Use this as both a quick reference and a roadmap for deeper dives into the individual configuration files.

Author: Thanks @aekiss But are we gonna call sea ice model CICE6? I thought it is CICE from https://cice-consortium-cice.readthedocs.io/en/main/intro/about.html

## MOM6 parameter choices

### Horizontal grid

The 25km configuration uses a tripolar grid to avoid a singularity at the North Pole. The domain is zonally periodic `REENTRANT_X = True` and open at the north via a tripolar fold `TRIPOLAR_N = True` while closed in the south `REENTRANT_Y = False`. The horizontal grid has `1440x1142` tracer points. This is closely aligned with prior models, such as `ACCESS-OM2-025` and `GFDL OM4/OM5` (`1440x1080`) and provides eddy-permitting detail in the ocean while maintaining numerical stability. See [Grids](../Grids/) for more information. 

### Vertical resolution and ALE coordinate

> This configuration uses 75 vertical layers (`NK=75`) with an arbitrary Lagrangian Euler (`ALE`) vertical coordinate scheme [@griffies2020primer]. The `ALE` scheme is enabled by `USE_REGRIDDING = True` (activating the “split-explicit” layered/reegridding algorithm). MOM6 also supports true hybrid vertical coordinates, such as "layered isopycnal-z", where layers follow density surfaces in the ocean interior but transition to z-coordinates near the surface or bottom. However, that mode is not used in this configuration. We adopt a stretched $z^*$ vertical coordinate `REGRIDDING_COORDINATE_MODE = "ZSTAR"`. The vertical grid spacing is specified via an input file (`ALE_COORDINATE_CONFIG = "FILE:ocean_vgrid.nc,interfaces=zeta"`). The deepest ocean depth is set to `MAXIMUM_DEPTH = 6000.0` and partial bottom cells are effectively used by `ALE`. Gravitational acceleration (`G_EARTH = 9.8`) and reference density (`RHO_0 = 1035`) are set to standard values, consistent with `BOUSSINESQ = True`. The Boussinesq setup means density variations only affect buoyancy, not total mass. In our configuration, sea level is computed assuming a reference density (here using the fixed reference density for sea-level calc since `CALC_RHO_FOR_SEA_LEVEL = False`).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This configuration uses 75 vertical layers (`NK=75`) with an arbitrary Lagrangian Euler (`ALE`) vertical coordinate scheme [@griffies2020primer]. The `ALE` scheme is enabled by `USE_REGRIDDING = True` (activating the “split-explicit” layered/regridding algorithm). MOM6 also supports true hybrid vertical coordinates, such as "layered isopycnal-z", where layers follow density surfaces in the ocean interior but transition to z-coordinates near the surface or bottom. However, that mode is not used in this configuration. We adopt a stretched $z^*$ vertical coordinate `REGRIDDING_COORDINATE_MODE = "ZSTAR"`. The vertical grid spacing is specified via an input file (`ALE_COORDINATE_CONFIG = "FILE:ocean_vgrid.nc,interfaces=zeta"`). The deepest ocean depth is set to `MAXIMUM_DEPTH = 6000.0` and partial bottom cells are effectively used by `ALE`. The gravitational acceleration is `G_EARTH = 9.8`m/s^2. The Boussinesq approximation is made (`BOUSSINESQ = True`), meaning density variations only affect buoyancy, with all other terms using a reference density `RHO_0 = 1035`kg/m^3, the standard value. In our configuration, sea level is computed assuming a reference density (here using the fixed reference density for sea-level calc since `CALC_RHO_FOR_SEA_LEVEL = False`).
```
some small edits for hopefully improved clarity

### Thermodynamics and Equation of State (TEOS-10)

> The configuration uses `EQN_OF_STATE = "ROQUET_RHO"` for seawater. [`ROQUET_RHO`](<https://mom6.readthedocs.io/en/main/api/generated/pages/Equation_of_State.html#:~:text=in%20situ%20temperature).-,ROQUET_RHO%20Equation%20of%20State,-%C2%B6>) is based on TEOS-10, but uses a 75-term polynomial to compute in-situ density as a function of conservative temperature and absolute salinity, closely approximating the full TEOS-10 results [@roquet2015accurate]. Prognostic temperature and salinity are conservative temperature and absolute salinity (`USE_CONTEMP_ABSSAL = True`), consistent with the equation of state. However, the cold-start initial conditions in our configuration use an inconsistent temperature–salinity pair - specifically, conservative temperature combined with practical salinity (see [issues/235](https://github.com/ACCESS-NRI/access-om3-configs/issues/235)).
> 
> 
> The `_RHO` variant specifically fits density rather than specific volume, ideal for layered models and ensuring that neutral density calculations are precise. The freezing conservative temperature is calculated from absolute salinity and pressure using a 23-term polynomial fit refactored from the TEOS-10 package (`TFREEZE_FORM = "TEOS_POLY"`). More relevant discussions or notes can be found in [TWG-23-July-2025](https://forum.access-hive.org.au/t/cosima-twg-meeting-minutes-2025/4067/17#:~:text=Freezing%20temperature%20consistency%20between%20mom6%20and%20cice). 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The configuration uses `EQN_OF_STATE = "ROQUET_RHO"` for seawater. [`ROQUET_RHO`](<https://mom6.readthedocs.io/en/main/api/generated/pages/Equation_of_State.html#:~:text=in%20situ%20temperature).-,ROQUET_RHO%20Equation%20of%20State,-%C2%B6>) is based on TEOS-10, but uses a 75-term polynomial to compute in-situ density as a function of conservative temperature and absolute salinity, closely approximating the full TEOS-10 results [@roquet2015accurate]. The `_RHO` variant specifically fits density rather than specific volume, ideal for layered models and ensuring that neutral density calculations are precise. Prognostic temperature and salinity are conservative temperature and absolute salinity (`USE_CONTEMP_ABSSAL = True`), consistent with the equation of state. However, the cold-start initial conditions in our configuration use an inconsistent temperature–salinity pair - specifically, conservative temperature combined with practical salinity (see [issues/235](https://github.com/ACCESS-NRI/access-om3-configs/issues/235)).

The freezing conservative temperature is calculated from absolute salinity and pressure using a 23-term polynomial fit refactored from the TEOS-10 package (`TFREEZE_FORM = "TEOS_POLY"`). More relevant discussions or notes can be found in [TWG-23-July-2025](https://forum.access-hive.org.au/t/cosima-twg-meeting-minutes-2025/4067/17#:~:text=Freezing%20temperature%20consistency%20between%20mom6%20and%20cice). 
```
moved `_RHO` variant sentence

### Surface freezing and salinity constraints

> At the ocean surface, we have enabled the realistic sea-ice formation and salinity. We've turned on frazil ice formation (`FRAZIL = TRUE`), which means if the ocean surface layer temperature drops below the surface freezing point, the model will convert the negative heat content into frazil ice instead of allowing the water to supercool. By enabling frazil, any heat deficit below freezing in the ocean is passed to the sea-ice component as latent heat of fusion, preventing unrealistically cold liquid water. 

Reviewer 2: a small correction
```suggestion
At the ocean surface, we have enabled realistic sea-ice formation and salinity. We've turned on frazil ice formation (`FRAZIL = TRUE`), which works upwards through each water column, transferring heat downwards from the layer above as needed to prevent the in-situ temperature falling below the local freezing point in each layer in turn. If the top layer is below freezing, heat is extracted from the sea ice model, which grows frazil ice in response. More details are [here](https://mom6.readthedocs.io/en/main/api/generated/pages/Frazil_Ice.html).
```

Another parameter we adjust is `HFREEZE = 10.0`. This means the model computes a "melt potential" over a `10m` layer for sea-ice melt/freeze processes. If `HFREEZE >0`, the ocean will calculate how much heat is available in the top 10 meters to melt ice. 

### Surface salinity restoring
Sea surface salinity is restored to a reference field (`RESTORE_SALINITY = True`, `SALT_RESTORE_FILE = "salt_sfc_restore.nc"`) with a piston velocity of 0.11 m/day (`FLUXCONST = 0.11`). The restoring is implemented as a virtual salt flux ( `SRESTORE_AS_SFLUX = True`). This approach conserves salt overall (balanced globally by subtracting the mean flux, because we set `ADJUST_NET_SRESTORE_TO_ZERO = True` to avoid altering global salinity). No effective limit is applied to the salinity restoring applied (`MAX_DELTA_SRESTORE = 999`). More discussions and decisions can be found at [issues/350](https://github.com/ACCESS-NRI/access-om3-configs/issues/350), [issues/325](https://github.com/ACCESS-NRI/access-om3-configs/issues/325), [issues/257](https://github.com/ACCESS-NRI/access-om3-configs/issues/257).

> 

Reviewer 2: The salt restoring file is monthly climatological sea surface salinity obtained from World Ocean Atlas 2023.

### Diagnostics and age tracer
The configuration introduces some passive tracers and diagnostics for analysis. For example, we enable `USE_IDEAL_AGE_TRACER = True`, which measures the time since water left the surface. This tracer ages at a rate of 1/year once it is isolated from the surface (`DO_IDEAL_AGE = True`). It doesn’t affect dynamics but is a diagnostic to understand water mass ventilation and residence times.

> We also output 3D diagnostics on both z*- and density-coordinates. Specifically, `NUM_DIAG_COORDS = 2` with `DIAG_COORDS = "z Z ZSTAR", "rho2 RHO2 RHO"`, which the vertical coordinate levels for each defined by `DIAG_COORD_DEF_Z = "FILE:ocean_vgrid.nc,interfaces=zeta"` and `DIAG_COORD_DEF_RHO2 = "RFNC1:76,999.5,1020.,1034.1,3.1,1041.,0.002"` (relevant info can be found at [PR/622](https://github.com/ACCESS-NRI/access-om3-configs/pull/622)). Finally, the model writes a comprehensive parameter documentation (`DOCUMENT_FILE = "MOM_parameter_doc"` and `COMPLETE_DOCUMENTATION = True`), which is why we have this detailed list attached under `docs` folder. This ensures transparency and reproducibility and all non-default parameters are recorded.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We also output 3D diagnostics on both z*- and density-coordinates. Specifically, `NUM_DIAG_COORDS = 2` with `DIAG_COORDS = "z Z ZSTAR", "rho2 RHO2 RHO"`, with the vertical coordinate levels for each defined by `DIAG_COORD_DEF_Z = "FILE:ocean_vgrid.nc,interfaces=zeta"` and `DIAG_COORD_DEF_RHO2 = "RFNC1:76,999.5,1020.,1034.1,3.1,1041.,0.002"` (relevant info can be found at [PR/622](https://github.com/ACCESS-NRI/access-om3-configs/pull/622)). Finally, the model writes comprehensive parameter documentation (`DOCUMENT_FILE = "MOM_parameter_doc"` and `COMPLETE_DOCUMENTATION = True`), which is why we have this detailed list attached under `[docs](https://github.com/ACCESS-NRI/access-om3-configs/tree/release-MC_25km_jra_ryf/docs)` folder. This ensures transparency and reproducibility, with a record of all default and non-default parameters.
```

### Vertical mixing parameterisations
#### Energetic planetary boundary layer (`ePBL`)

> The configuration handles the vertical mixing in the ocean surface boundary layer (`OSBL`) with `ePBL` scheme rather the the traditional `KPP`. The `ePBL` scheme is an energy-based 1D turbulence closure approach that integrates a boundary layer energy budget to determine mixing coefficients. It was developed by [@reichl2018simplified] to improve upon `KPP` for climate simulations by including the effect of `TKE` input and wind-driven mixing in a more physcically constrainted way. Relevant discussions and decisions can be found at [issues/465](https://github.com/ACCESS-NRI/access-om3-configs/issues/465), [issues/426](https://github.com/ACCESS-NRI/access-om3-configs/issues/426), [issues/373](https://github.com/ACCESS-NRI/access-om3-configs/issues/373).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The configuration handles the vertical mixing in the ocean surface boundary layer (`OSBL`) with the `ePBL` scheme rather the the traditional `KPP`. The `ePBL` scheme is an energy-based 1D turbulence closure approach that integrates a boundary layer energy budget to determine mixing coefficients. It was developed by [@reichl2018simplified] to improve upon `KPP` for climate simulations by including the effect of turbulent kinetic energy input and wind-driven mixing in a more physically constrained way. Relevant discussions and decisions can be found at [issues/465](https://github.com/ACCESS-NRI/access-om3-configs/issues/465), [issues/426](https://github.com/ACCESS-NRI/access-om3-configs/issues/426), [issues/373](https://github.com/ACCESS-NRI/access-om3-configs/issues/373).
```

> The configuration handles the vertical mixing in the ocean surface boundary layer (`OSBL`) with `ePBL` scheme rather the the traditional `KPP`. The `ePBL` scheme is an energy-based 1D turbulence closure approach that integrates a boundary layer energy budget to determine mixing coefficients. It was developed by [@reichl2018simplified] to improve upon `KPP` for climate simulations by including the effect of `TKE` input and wind-driven mixing in a more physcically constrainted way. Relevant discussions and decisions can be found at [issues/465](https://github.com/ACCESS-NRI/access-om3-configs/issues/465), [issues/426](https://github.com/ACCESS-NRI/access-om3-configs/issues/426), [issues/373](https://github.com/ACCESS-NRI/access-om3-configs/issues/373).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The configuration handles the vertical mixing in the ocean surface boundary layer with `ePBL` scheme rather the the traditional `KPP`. The `ePBL` scheme is an energy-based 1D turbulence closure approach that integrates a boundary layer energy budget to determine mixing coefficients. It was developed by [@reichl2018simplified] to improve upon `KPP` for climate simulations by including the effect of `TKE` input and wind-driven mixing in a more physcically constrainted way. Relevant discussions and decisions can be found at [issues/465](https://github.com/ACCESS-NRI/access-om3-configs/issues/465), [issues/426](https://github.com/ACCESS-NRI/access-om3-configs/issues/426), [issues/373](https://github.com/ACCESS-NRI/access-om3-configs/issues/373).
```

> We keep most of paramters in default as the same as [GFDL OM5 configuration](https://github.com/NOAA-GFDL/MOM6-examples/blob/3c1de3512e2200bfc10d9e5150715c9df76dbd30/ice_ocean_SIS2/Baltic_OM5_025/MOM_parameter_doc.all). We incorporate Langmuir turbulence effects - `EPBL_LANGMUIR_SCHEME = “ADDITIVE”`. This choice adds another mixing contribution due to Langmuir circulations (wave-driven mixing). Since we do not explicitly couple to a wave model in this configuration (`USE_WAVES = False`), the Langmuir effect is parameterised via a predetermined enhancement factor in `ePBL`. We also leave the Langmuir enhancement factors at their defaults (eg, `VSTAR_SURF_FAC = 1.2`, `LT_ENHANCE_EXP = –1.5`). This inclusion of wave effects is expected to reduce warm SST biases by enhancing mixing under strong winds, as found in studies of Langmuir turbulence (eg, `USE_LA_LI2016 = True` from [@li2016langmuir]). The `ePBL` approach overall provides a physically-based estimate of vertical diffusivities constrained by available `TKE`, rather than relying on prescribed profiles as in `KPP`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We keep most of parameters by default the same as [GFDL OM5 configuration](https://github.com/NOAA-GFDL/MOM6-examples/blob/3c1de3512e2200bfc10d9e5150715c9df76dbd30/ice_ocean_SIS2/Baltic_OM5_025/MOM_parameter_doc.all). We incorporate Langmuir turbulence effects - `EPBL_LANGMUIR_SCHEME = “ADDITIVE”`. This choice adds another mixing contribution due to Langmuir circulations (wave-driven mixing). Since we do not explicitly couple to a wave model in this configuration (`USE_WAVES = False`), the Langmuir effect is parameterised via a predetermined enhancement factor in `ePBL`. We also leave the Langmuir enhancement factors at their defaults (eg, `VSTAR_SURF_FAC = 1.2`, `LT_ENHANCE_EXP = –1.5`). This inclusion of wave effects is expected to reduce warm SST biases by enhancing mixing under strong winds, as found in studies of Langmuir turbulence (e.g., `USE_LA_LI2016 = True` from [@li2016langmuir]). The `ePBL` approach overall provides a physically-based estimate of vertical diffusivities constrained by available turbulent kinetic energy, rather than relying on prescribed profiles as in `KPP`.
```

> We keep most of paramters in default as the same as [GFDL OM5 configuration](https://github.com/NOAA-GFDL/MOM6-examples/blob/3c1de3512e2200bfc10d9e5150715c9df76dbd30/ice_ocean_SIS2/Baltic_OM5_025/MOM_parameter_doc.all). We incorporate Langmuir turbulence effects - `EPBL_LANGMUIR_SCHEME = “ADDITIVE”`. This choice adds another mixing contribution due to Langmuir circulations (wave-driven mixing). Since we do not explicitly couple to a wave model in this configuration (`USE_WAVES = False`), the Langmuir effect is parameterised via a predetermined enhancement factor in `ePBL`. We also leave the Langmuir enhancement factors at their defaults (eg, `VSTAR_SURF_FAC = 1.2`, `LT_ENHANCE_EXP = –1.5`). This inclusion of wave effects is expected to reduce warm SST biases by enhancing mixing under strong winds, as found in studies of Langmuir turbulence (eg, `USE_LA_LI2016 = True` from [@li2016langmuir]). The `ePBL` approach overall provides a physically-based estimate of vertical diffusivities constrained by available `TKE`, rather than relying on prescribed profiles as in `KPP`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
We use the default values for most parameters, as in the [GFDL OM5 configuration](https://github.com/NOAA-GFDL/MOM6-examples/blob/3c1de3512e2200bfc10d9e5150715c9df76dbd30/ice_ocean_SIS2/Baltic_OM5_025/MOM_parameter_doc.all). We incorporate Langmuir turbulence effects (`EPBL_LANGMUIR_SCHEME = “ADDITIVE”`). This choice adds another mixing contribution due to Langmuir circulations (wave-driven mixing). Since we do not explicitly couple to a wave model in this configuration (`USE_WAVES = False`), the Langmuir effect is parameterised via a predetermined enhancement factor in `ePBL`. We also leave the Langmuir enhancement factors at their defaults (e.g., `VSTAR_SURF_FAC = 1.2`, `LT_ENHANCE_EXP = –1.5`). This inclusion of wave effects is expected to reduce warm SST biases by enhancing mixing under strong winds, as found in studies of Langmuir turbulence (e.g., `USE_LA_LI2016 = True` from [@li2016langmuir]). The `ePBL` approach overall provides a physically-based estimate of vertical diffusivities constrained by available `TKE`, rather than relying on prescribed profiles as in `KPP`.
```

> For parameters tunning in `ePBL`, we have adjusted some parameters to match the [`GFDL` OM4 scheme](https://github.com/NOAA-GFDL/MOM6-examples/blob/3c1de3512e2200bfc10d9e5150715c9df76dbd30/ice_ocean_SIS2/Baltic_OM5_025/MOM_parameter_doc.all#L2247) (`EPBL_MSTAR_SCHEME = “OM4”`). We set `MSTAR_CAP = 1.25` (caps the mixing length scale factor `m` to 1.25) and adjusted coefficients: `MSTAR2_COEF1 = 0.29` and `COEF2 = 0.152`. These tweaks also inherited from [GFDL OM5 configuration](https://github.com/NOAA-GFDL/MOM6-examples/blob/3c1de3512e2200bfc10d9e5150715c9df76dbd30/ice_ocean_SIS2/Baltic_OM5_025/MOM_parameter_doc.all#L2255-L2260). We also enable `USE_MLD_ITERATION = True`, which allows `ePBL` to iteratively solve for a self-consistent mixed layer depth (`MLD`) rather than a single-pass estimate. This provides a more accurate `MLD`, especially when multiple criteria (buoyancy, shear) are at play, but at the cost of a few more iterations (`EPBL_MLD_MAX_ITS = 20`). Additionally, we set `EPBL_IS_ADDITIVE = False`, which means that the diffusivity from `ePBL` is not simply added to other sources of diffusivity, instead we let `ePBL` replace shear mixing when it is more energetic, rather than always adding on top. This avoids double counting turbulence. It is a choice that effectively transitions between schemes, for example, in weak wind conditions, shear-driven mixing might dominate, but in strong wind conditions, `ePBL` mixing dominates.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We have adjusted some `ePBL` parameters to match the [`GFDL` OM4 scheme](https://github.com/NOAA-GFDL/MOM6-examples/blob/3c1de3512e2200bfc10d9e5150715c9df76dbd30/ice_ocean_SIS2/Baltic_OM5_025/MOM_parameter_doc.all#L2247) (`EPBL_MSTAR_SCHEME = “OM4”`). We set `MSTAR_CAP = 1.25` (caps the mixing length scale factor `m` to 1.25) and adjusted coefficients: `MSTAR2_COEF1 = 0.29` and `COEF2 = 0.152`. These tweaks are inherited from the [GFDL OM5 configuration](https://github.com/NOAA-GFDL/MOM6-examples/blob/3c1de3512e2200bfc10d9e5150715c9df76dbd30/ice_ocean_SIS2/Baltic_OM5_025/MOM_parameter_doc.all#L2255-L2260). We also enable `USE_MLD_ITERATION = True`, which allows `ePBL` to iteratively solve for a self-consistent mixed layer depth (`MLD`) rather than a single-pass estimate. This provides a more accurate `MLD`, especially when multiple criteria (buoyancy, shear) are at play, but at the cost of a few more iterations (`EPBL_MLD_MAX_ITS = 20`). Additionally, we set `EPBL_IS_ADDITIVE = False`, which means that the diffusivity from `ePBL` is not simply added to other sources of diffusivity, instead we let `ePBL` replace shear mixing when it is more energetic, rather than always adding on top. This avoids double counting turbulence. It is a choice that effectively transitions between schemes, for example, in weak wind conditions, shear-driven mixing might dominate, but in strong wind conditions, `ePBL` mixing dominates.
```

> For parameters tunning in `ePBL`, we have adjusted some parameters to match the [`GFDL` OM4 scheme](https://github.com/NOAA-GFDL/MOM6-examples/blob/3c1de3512e2200bfc10d9e5150715c9df76dbd30/ice_ocean_SIS2/Baltic_OM5_025/MOM_parameter_doc.all#L2247) (`EPBL_MSTAR_SCHEME = “OM4”`). We set `MSTAR_CAP = 1.25` (caps the mixing length scale factor `m` to 1.25) and adjusted coefficients: `MSTAR2_COEF1 = 0.29` and `COEF2 = 0.152`. These tweaks also inherited from [GFDL OM5 configuration](https://github.com/NOAA-GFDL/MOM6-examples/blob/3c1de3512e2200bfc10d9e5150715c9df76dbd30/ice_ocean_SIS2/Baltic_OM5_025/MOM_parameter_doc.all#L2255-L2260). We also enable `USE_MLD_ITERATION = True`, which allows `ePBL` to iteratively solve for a self-consistent mixed layer depth (`MLD`) rather than a single-pass estimate. This provides a more accurate `MLD`, especially when multiple criteria (buoyancy, shear) are at play, but at the cost of a few more iterations (`EPBL_MLD_MAX_ITS = 20`). Additionally, we set `EPBL_IS_ADDITIVE = False`, which means that the diffusivity from `ePBL` is not simply added to other sources of diffusivity, instead we let `ePBL` replace shear mixing when it is more energetic, rather than always adding on top. This avoids double counting turbulence. It is a choice that effectively transitions between schemes, for example, in weak wind conditions, shear-driven mixing might dominate, but in strong wind conditions, `ePBL` mixing dominates.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For parameters tunning in `ePBL`, we have adjusted some parameters to match the [`GFDL` OM4 scheme](https://github.com/NOAA-GFDL/MOM6-examples/blob/3c1de3512e2200bfc10d9e5150715c9df76dbd30/ice_ocean_SIS2/Baltic_OM5_025/MOM_parameter_doc.all#L2247) (`EPBL_MSTAR_SCHEME = “OM4”`). We cap the mixing length scale factor at 1.25 (`MSTAR_CAP = 1.25`) and set coefficients `MSTAR2_COEF1 = 0.29` and `MSTAR2_COEF2 = 0.152`. These tweaks also inherited from [GFDL OM5 configuration](https://github.com/NOAA-GFDL/MOM6-examples/blob/3c1de3512e2200bfc10d9e5150715c9df76dbd30/ice_ocean_SIS2/Baltic_OM5_025/MOM_parameter_doc.all#L2255-L2260). We also enable `USE_MLD_ITERATION = True`, which allows `ePBL` to iteratively solve for a self-consistent mixed layer depth (MLD) rather than a single-pass estimate. This provides a more accurate MLD, especially when multiple criteria (buoyancy, shear) are at play, but at the cost of a few more iterations (`EPBL_MLD_MAX_ITS = 20`). Additionally, we set `EPBL_IS_ADDITIVE = False`, which means that the diffusivity from `ePBL` is not simply added to other sources of diffusivity, instead we let `ePBL` replace shear mixing when it is more energetic, rather than always adding on top. This avoids double counting turbulence. It is a choice that effectively transitions between schemes, for example, in weak wind conditions, shear-driven mixing might dominate, but in strong wind conditions, `ePBL` mixing dominates.
```

#### Interior background mixing

> For the ocean interior background mixing, we follow the approach from [GFDL OM5 configuration](https://github.com/NOAA-GFDL/MOM6-examples/blob/3c1de3512e2200bfc10d9e5150715c9df76dbd30/ice_ocean_SIS2/Baltic_OM5_025/MOM_parameter_doc.all#L2004) of using a weak constant background diapycnal diffusivity (`KD = 1.5E-05`) for diapycnal mixing. A floor `KD_MIN = 2.0e-6` is also applied, so it won’t go below 2e-6 anywhere, ensuring numerical stability. We enable `DOUBLE_DIFFUSION = True`, which enhances vertical mixing for salt-fingering. Henyey-type internal wave scaling is set through `HENYEY_IGW_BACKGROUND = True`. The parameters `HENYEY_N0_2OMEGA = 20.0` and `HENYEY_MAX_LAT = 73.0` are kept at default. At the same time, to prevent unbounded growth of shear-based or convective mixing, we cap the total diffusivity increment from TKE-based schemes with `KD_MAX = 0.1`. This is a large upper bound that would only be triggered in extremely unstable cases.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For the ocean interior background mixing, we follow the approach from the [GFDL OM5 configuration](https://github.com/NOAA-GFDL/MOM6-examples/blob/3c1de3512e2200bfc10d9e5150715c9df76dbd30/ice_ocean_SIS2/Baltic_OM5_025/MOM_parameter_doc.all#L2004) of using a weak constant background diapycnal diffusivity (`KD = 1.5E-05`) for diapycnal mixing. A floor `KD_MIN = 2.0e-6` is also applied, so it won’t go below 2e-6 m^2/s anywhere, ensuring numerical stability. We enable `DOUBLE_DIFFUSION = True`, which enhances vertical mixing for salt-fingering. Henyey-type internal wave scaling is set through `HENYEY_IGW_BACKGROUND = True`. The parameters `HENYEY_N0_2OMEGA = 20.0` and `HENYEY_MAX_LAT = 73.0` are kept at default. At the same time, to prevent unbounded growth of shear-based or convective mixing, we cap the total diffusivity increment from TKE-based schemes with `KD_MAX = 0.1`. This is a large upper bound that would only be triggered in extremely unstable cases.
```

> The bottom drag is quadratic with coefficient `CDRAG = 0.003`, which is a typical value from ocean observations. `BOTTOMDRAGLAW = True` with `LINEAR_DRAG = False` means a quadratic bottom drag law rather than a linear damping. The thickness of the bottom boundary layer is set to `HBBL = 10.0`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The bottom drag is quadratic with coefficient `CDRAG = 0.003`, which is a typical value from ocean observations. `BOTTOMDRAGLAW = True` with `LINEAR_DRAG = False` means a quadratic bottom drag law rather than a linear damping. The thickness of the bottom boundary layer is set to `HBBL = 10.0` m.
```

### Horizontal viscosity and subgrid momentum mixing

> In our configuration, we use a hybrid Laplacian-biharmonic viscosity scheme (`LAPLACIAN = True` - 2nd order, `BIHARMONIC = True` - 4th order) to manage unresolved subgrid momentum processes. It helps remove small-scale kinetic energy where it can not resolve it, while preserving large-scale eddy structures. Laplacian viscosity (harmonic) primarily acts on the largest resolved scales, and biharmonic viscosity targets the smaller scales. From the [MOM6 documentation](https://mom6.readthedocs.io/en/main/api/generated/modules/mom_hor_visc.html#namespacemom-hor-visc-1section-horizontal-viscosity:~:text=Laplacian%20viscosity%20coefficient), the harmonic Laplacian viscosity coefficient is computed as following,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In our configuration, we use a hybrid Laplacian-biharmonic viscosity scheme (`LAPLACIAN = True` - 2nd order, `BIHARMONIC = True` - 4th order) to manage unresolved subgrid momentum processes. It helps remove small-scale kinetic energy, while preserving large-scale eddy structures. Biharmonic viscosity targets the smaller scales more selectively than Laplacian (harmonic). From the [MOM6 documentation](https://mom6.readthedocs.io/en/main/api/generated/modules/mom_hor_visc.html#namespacemom-hor-visc-1section-horizontal-viscosity:~:text=Laplacian%20viscosity%20coefficient), the harmonic Laplacian viscosity coefficient is computed as following,
```

We also ensure salinity never goes negative by setting `BOUND_SALINITY = True`. In coupled models, when sea ice forms or melts, large salinity fluxes occur. This switch prevents numerical issues when the top model cell might be depleted of salt by excessive ice formation. With this parameter on, salinity is clipped at a minimum value (`MIN_SALINITY = 0.0`). If the sea-ice model were to extract more salt than available, the ocean salinity will be floored at 0 and any deficit is ignored, avoiding unphysical negative salinity. In practice, this situation is rare, but it is a safety measure against extreme scenarios (eg, rapid freezing in nearly fresh water). We also set `SALINITY_UNDERFLOW = 0.0`, meaning any tiny salinity values (close to 0) are reset to exactly 0 as well.

Another parameter we adjust is `HFREEZE = 10.0`. This means the model computes a "melt potential" over a `10m` layer for sea-ice melt/freeze processes. If `HFREEZE >0`, the ocean will calculate how much heat is available in the top 10 meters to melt ice. 

### Sea surface forcing

> The current configuration is forced with repeating atmospheric conditions and includes weak surface restoring for salinity. We use a repeat-year forcing (RYF) strategy with the JRA55-do v1.6 dataset. This means the model experiences one year of normal seasonal cycle atmospheric fluxes (wind, heat, precipitation, etc) that is repeated every model year. The advantages are avoiding interannual variability while maintaining a realistic seasonal cycle, helping to equilibrate the ocean state. More details can be found in [Forcing data models](pages/forcing-data-models/).

Author: Yeah I agree. I'll remove this section.

### Surface salinity restoring
We use `RESTORE_SALINITY = True` to have sea surface salinity (`SSS`) is weakly restored to a reference field (`SALT_RESTORE_FILE = "salt_sfc_restore.nc"`), and a piston velocity (`FLUXCONST = 0.11`m/day) is given. The restoring is implemented as a virtual salt flux ( `SRESTORE_AS_SFLUX = True`) to nudge `SSS`. This approach conserves salt overall (balanced globally by subtracting the mean flux, because we set `ADJUST_NET_SRESTORE_TO_ZERO = True` to avoid altering global salinity). `MAX_DELTA_SRESTORE = 999` hence currently there’s effectively no cap on the `SSS` anomaly used. More discussions and decisions can be found at [issues/350](https://github.com/ACCESS-NRI/access-om3-configs/issues/350), [issues/325](https://github.com/ACCESS-NRI/access-om3-configs/issues/325), [issues/257](https://github.com/ACCESS-NRI/access-om3-configs/issues/257).

### Diagnostics and age tracer

> The current configuration intrigers some passive tracers and diagnostics for analysis. For example, we enable `USE_IDEAL_AGE_TRACER = True`, which measures the time since water left the surface. This tracer is incremented by +1 year per year everywhere and reset to 0 at the surface when water is in contact with the atmosphere. It doesn’t affect dynamics but is a diagnostic to understand water mass ventilation and residence times. The cost is minimal, so it was turned on as a useful diagnostic. In the ideal_age module, we also set `DO_IDEAL_AGE = True`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The current configuration intrigers some passive tracers and diagnostics for analysis. For example, we enable `USE_IDEAL_AGE_TRACER = True`, which measures the time since water left the surface. This tracer ages at a rate of 1/year once it is isolated from the surface (`DO_IDEAL_AGE = True`). It doesn’t affect dynamics but is a diagnostic to understand water mass ventilation and residence times.
```

> The current configuration intrigers some passive tracers and diagnostics for analysis. For example, we enable `USE_IDEAL_AGE_TRACER = True`, which measures the time since water left the surface. This tracer is incremented by +1 year per year everywhere and reset to 0 at the surface when water is in contact with the atmosphere. It doesn’t affect dynamics but is a diagnostic to understand water mass ventilation and residence times. The cost is minimal, so it was turned on as a useful diagnostic. In the ideal_age module, we also set `DO_IDEAL_AGE = True`.

Author: > "intrigers" --> introduces?

yes!

> We also output diagnostics on special vertical coordinates. `NUM_DIAG_COORDS = 2` with `DIAG_COORDS = "z Z ZSTAR", "rho2 RHO2 RHO"`. This means it will produce diagnostics on two sets of vertical levels: one is `Z (depth)` and one is `RHO2`. The settings `DIAG_COORD_DEF_Z = "FILE:ocean_vgrid.nc,interfaces=zeta"` and `DIAG_COORD_DEF_RHO2 = "RFNC1:76,999.5,1020.,1034.1,3.1,1041.,0.002"` indicate how those coordinate surfaces are defined (relevant info can be found at [PR/622](https://github.com/ACCESS-NRI/access-om3-configs/pull/622)). Finally, the model writes a comprehensive parameter documentation (`DOCUMENT_FILE = "MOM_parameter_doc"` and `COMPLETE_DOCUMENTATION = True`), which is why we have this detailed list attached under `docs` folder. This ensures transparency and reproducibility and all non-default parameters are recorded.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
We also output 3D diagnostics on both z*- and density-coordinates. Specifically, `NUM_DIAG_COORDS = 2` with `DIAG_COORDS = "z Z ZSTAR", "rho2 RHO2 RHO"`, which the vertical coordinate levels for each defined by `DIAG_COORD_DEF_Z = "FILE:ocean_vgrid.nc,interfaces=zeta"` and `DIAG_COORD_DEF_RHO2 = "RFNC1:76,999.5,1020.,1034.1,3.1,1041.,0.002"` (relevant info can be found at [PR/622](https://github.com/ACCESS-NRI/access-om3-configs/pull/622)). Finally, the model writes a comprehensive parameter documentation (`DOCUMENT_FILE = "MOM_parameter_doc"` and `COMPLETE_DOCUMENTATION = True`), which is why we have this detailed list attached under `docs` folder. This ensures transparency and reproducibility and all non-default parameters are recorded.
```

Also, the last two sentences feel out of place in this paragraph?

Author: > Also, the last two sentences feel out of place in this paragraph?

I'll remove them.

### Vertical mixing parameterisations
#### Energetic planetary boundary layer (`ePBL`)

> The current configuration handles the vertical mixing in the ocean surface boundary layer (`OSBL`) with `ePBL` scheme rather the the traditional `KPP`. The `ePBL` scheme is an energy-based 1D turbulence closure approach that integrates a boundary layer energy budget to determine mixing coefficients. It was developed by [@reichl2018simplified] to improve upon `KPP` for climate simulations by including the effect of `TKE` input and wind-driven mixing in a more physcically constrainted way. Relevant discussions and decisions can be found at [issues/465](https://github.com/ACCESS-NRI/access-om3-configs/issues/465), [issues/426](https://github.com/ACCESS-NRI/access-om3-configs/issues/426), [issues/373](https://github.com/ACCESS-NRI/access-om3-configs/issues/373).

Author: A o
